>> Spencer Schneidenbach: All right,
now let's move on to classes.
This is the most exciting part, I think.
And there's a lot to cover.
So let's just get right into it.
We've already kind of
alluded to what a class is.
A class is,
just like this is defined here.
It's a basically a thing, and a definition
for something that can exist, right?
This thing is a person class and
it can, and
a person can have a name and
it can have an age, right?
So they're a fundamental building block
of object-oriented programming and
what you can do is you can
describe things in the real world.
You can describe their structure, and
you can describe their behaviors.
This is a object-oriented
pillar of abstraction, right?
These things have meaning in our systems,
even though a Spencer record may
exist in a database and probably
exists in lots of different databases.
That thing has meaning,
even though it's not me.
That's what classes
are meant to represent,
as things in the real
world that have meaning.
So a class is pretty much defined same
way as in a very similar way as a method,
but they're obviously very different
in that there's an accessibility
modifier followed by the class
keywords called the class keyword.
And then the name of the class,
I should mention that classes
are Pascal cased in C Sharp.
And I think that's pretty well true
in JavaScript, as well as that,
there tend to be Pascal case,
especially in the TypeScript world.
So classes can contain
all kinds of things.
I wanna look at fields real quick.
So this is what's referred
to as a property.
And we'll get to this syntax.
It looks a little silly but
we'll get to it here in a second.
Let's instead declare this person
as using a what's called a field,
and a field is just
an object on this class.
It belongs to this class.
So fields are very common to use,
but not necessarily common to use
directly on classes that kind
of represent a data structure.
And you'll see that when
we talk about properties.
But you can see that using this,
which is called dot notation,
I can take in a person that
has a specific name, and
I can access that name property,
Console.writeLine,
and I can use dot notation to get
into that and access that name.
And you can see, if we hover over it, it
says it's a field on the person class, and
it's called name, and it's type of string.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And
if we run that,
you can see that we can
access that just fine.
Wait a second, what did I do here?
Person console.WriteLine.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Let's
try dotnet run.
Okay, here we go, old name.
Which is what I have the value
of my person class set to,
or the name on my person class is set to,
is old value.
So properties are what I would consider to
be a more important and the main focus of
when you're talking about classes,
we should be talking about properties.
Properties are an abstraction over fields,
and
what that means is that that they property
is meant to control access to a field,
because you may not want to
reveal a field to other classes.
And here's basically back in
the olden days of C sharp,
when you declared a class and
declared a property,
you would have to declare a field with,
typically,
fields that are private,
AKA accessible only by this person class.
You can't do person_name,
it will complain that is inaccessible
due to its protection level.
So you can't access it because
it's private to this person class.
But we can expose it out using
the name property, and we would say,
get return_name,
which would return this value, or
we would set the value of name of
the _name field to this value.
This is the syntax that used to be,
this is what you would use to
declare properties in C sharp.
Luckily the syntax is a lot friendlier and
my main way of declaring
them is like this,
this syntax automatically creates a field
under the hood as well as the property.
And I'd say it's a lot nicer than having
to declare the field separately and
then explicitly set up your getters and
setters,
there's what these referred to as,
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: This
is the more concise way,
and by far the superior,
99% of the time when I'm declaring
properties this is how they look.
They're public.
They're always have a type declared,
and then they always have a name and
then a getter and setter,
which we can modify accessibility for.
And I'll show you what that
looks like here in a second.
So one of the main use cases for
properties is being able to set and
get fields, but only by choice.
Let me demonstrate.
So let's take this example of a person
class that has a name property
that does not have a setter,
as you can see if we try to set it,
the compiler will complain and
say this is read-only.
We can't actually set this property, but
we can only do that in the context of
what's referred to as a constructor,
which we will get to very shortly.
The important thing to know is that
a property can appropriately hide or
specifically disallow getting or
even setting it.
The getters and setters can also
have accessibility modifiers, so
we can say private set.
And you can see that if
you hover over this,
that the compiler still throws an error,
but it throws a slightly different one.
Says, hey, I can't get to this
property because it can only be
set inside of the context of this class,
in this case,
you could set it if you declared a A
method, I would never do this in practice.
I would just open
the setter up as necessary.
This is look looking like very Java like
now, but you could do name = name and
then you'd be able to set the value
of this person objects name.
Because we still have the center open,
it's just not exposed outside of
the context of the person class.
Hopefully, you're getting a sense of kind
of how accessibility modifiers operate.
Public and private are the two ones that
we've kind of mostly gone through now.
Deleting this will instantly convert
it to a public setter by default
because it will follow this
accessibility modifier here.
Consequently, if you take that off,
it's considered a private property and
you will not be able to
access it here as well.
Again, most of the time, I'm using classes
to define real objects in the real world
and I'm usually keeping the getters and
them setters open on certain things,
for objects that represent
real life things.
Lastly, properties can also be get only,
but
also just have some
kind of computed value.
They're called computed properties,
and they're super useful.
So assuming that we have a class
that has a FirstName and a LastName.
We can also have a FullName property
on that class that essentially combines
the FirstName and the LastName.
Or you could even do it like this.
You could say even just LastName +, so
you can concatenate strings with the plus
operator and then say FirstName.
So you can do that as well.
It's called a computed property.
This syntax, this equals and
greater than looks a little funky.
As we get into Lambda functions,
you'll see why that syntax
is existed the way it has.
It's pronounced goes into,
a little spoiler alert.
But that's essentially how you can create
a read only property that allows you to
get data off of that, but
you can combine it in useful ways
that your developers will appreciate.